Story Recapped here. Today,
I’m going to explain a drama,
romance, and sci-fi film called, “The Giver.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
After a calamity called The Ruin, society
reorganized into literal black and white
communities. The communities are ruled
over by elders, including the Chief Elder.
In order to maintain peace and harmony,
anything that threatens unity was removed.
This means that in this world, there is no such
thing as skin color, race, or religion. Everyone
is one and the same. Conflict, pain, and suffering
were removed, but so were emotions, freedom,
individuality, and joy. For the betterment of
society, humans are forbidden to lie. Sexual
desire and reproduction were prohibited and all
humans were now being genetically engineered.
Once a person comes into age, he or she will
take their assigned place in the community.
One day before the Graduation ceremony,
18-year-old Jonas rides his bike with his two best
friends, Fiona and Asher, on their way to their
last day volunteering at the Nurturing Center.
Unlike his friends, Jonas feels scared and unsure
of the path that he’s going to be assigned to.
He feels different from his friends and sometimes,
he sees things like a color that only he can see.
They arrive at the Nurturing Center
where Jonas’s assigned Father
also works. His father is currently
caring for an Uncertain newborn,
a baby who hasn't been assigned to their family
unit yet. The Uncertain newborn, named Gabriel,
cries out but Fiona quickly soothes him as Jonas’s
Father coos his name. Jonas is concerned since
knowing a newborn’s name is against the rules but
his Father reassures him that the sound of the
name calms the baby. As his Father explains, Jonas
looks over at Fiona and sees a tinge of red in her
hair. He dismisses it and they continue with their
work. At the end of the day, the trio walks to the
fountain and does their little ritual of jumping
through the mini waterfall. They talk about their
impending Graduation and promise that no matter
what roles are assigned to them, they will remain
friends. Later that night, Jonas expresses his
anxiety during Feelings time at dinner, a time
when his Father, Mother, and little sister, Lily,
talk about their day. His Mother reassures him
that the elders are never wrong and that they’ve
been watching him since Jonas was a Newchild so
they will pick the perfect role for him. This does
nothing to help Jonas’s anxiety. The next morning,
the day to finally graduate arrives. The Chief
Elder appears as a hologram and hosts the
Graduation ceremony. The ceremony starts with the
presentation of the Elders who have now retired
and will be released to Elsewhere, a retirement
home for members of the community. After that,
newborns are assigned to their birth mothers,
children at the age of nine are given a
symbol of their developing independence and
responsibility. Soon enough, Jonas and the
other graduates join the stage where the elders
will now assign them their roles in the community.
Fiona is assigned as a Nurturer as
predicted while Asher becomes a Drone Pilot.
The elders, however, skip Jonas’s number,
until all the graduates have left the stage.
The elders reassure the audience that this is not
a mistake. They chose carefully this time because
they couldn’t afford another failure. Because
of Jonas’s intelligence, integrity, courage,
and capacity to see beyond, he has chosen to be
the next Receiver of Memory. After the ceremony,
Jonas asks his Father what the Chief Elder meant
by “can’t afford another failure,” but his Mother
shuts down the conversation. In his bedroom, Jonas
activates the chip to learn about his new role.
As the next Receiver of Memory, it’s his duty to
report directly to the current Receiver of Memory.
After his training, he is to return to
his dwelling immediately. As of now,
he is also exempt from rules governing
rudeness and he can ask any question.
Aside from his daily injection, he will not
take any medication, especially ones that
prohibit pain. He may not discuss his training
with anyone and he will be permitted to lie.
On his first day of training, Jonas wears his
uniform, making him stick out from the rest,
and rides his bike all the way to the Edge where
a house stood. He enters the house and since
he’s the new Receiver of Memory, it makes the
current one, the Giver. The Giver sits on his
chair and makes Jonas sit across from him. All the
humans in their communities have no memories of
the ancient past except for one, the Receiver of
Memory. When the elders need guidance on matters
beyond their experience, they go to the Receiver
of Memory who gives them wisdom. Now that Jonas
is the new Receiver of Memory, it’s his role
as the Giver to share this history with him.
Jonas spots a mark on the Giver’s
wrist as he moves closer towards him.
The Giver sees the same mark on Jonas’s wrist
as he takes his hands in his. As their hands
close together, Jonas is instantly transported
into a new world that he has never seen before.
It’s very cold and he’s surrounded by stuff that
you call snow. He spots a sled and takes a ride
on it until he stops at the edge of a house where
a family is singing a Christmas song. Just then,
Jonas is taken back to the Giver’s room. The
Giver tells him that he will remember the names
and emotions in time. As they walk home, the Giver
tells Jonas that he will learn that there is so
much more to the world they currently live in.
In the evening, Mother asks about his training
and notices that there’s something different about
him. Their conversation is cut short when Father
brings Gabriel to the house. He decided to bring
him in to help him catch up on his development.
Jonas spots the same mark on Gabriel’s wrist
and knows that this baby will be chosen too.
The next day at training, they explore the
concept of color. Jonas shares that the first
color he saw was red in Fiona’s hair while the
Giver tells him that his first color was yellow.
Jonas seeps into the memories again and sees a
burst of colors in the sky. He’s witnessing what’s
called a sunset. When he opens his eyes again, he
begins to see the colors in the room. The more he
learns about the colors, the more he will see them
in this world. The elders decided to get rid of
colors because it encouraged envy. As Jonas looks
out the window, the mist clears up just a little
and reveals a tree. They were told that there was
nothing beyond the mist, but then again, they were
told a lot of things. When morning comes, Fiona
finds Jonas laying on the grass and watching the
sky, but unlike him, Fiona can’t see the colors
that he can see. Asher finds them holding hands
and invites them to the viewing point where they
can watch the drones fly. At the viewing point,
Asher tells them that he’s seen Elsewhere. It’s
just a few farms and houses like the communities.
What’s peculiar is that he saw two huge
rocks as if they’re forming a triangle.
The two then ask Jonas about his job.
Instead of telling them, he shows them.
Jonas grabs a tray and Fiona does the same.
Asher backs out and goes back to his training.
Meanwhile, Jonas and Fiona sit on their trays
and push themselves down from the viewing
point and into the grass below. They laugh as
Jonas helps Fiona to her feet. The community
radio reminds them that it’s impolite to
touch people outside their family unit.
Meanwhile, the Chief Elder meets with the Giver
and asks about Jonas’s training. She informs him
that Jonas was caught almost sharing his training
with friends. The Giver tells her that this is
inevitable and even he himself tried to share his
training with his friends when he was younger.
She warns him to not get carried away and to
remember what happened to the last Receiver.
He glares at her and tells her that the Receiver
had a name. When they have their training for
the day, the Giver gives several books for Jonas
to read. A map slips out from one of the books.
It’s a map of their world with a large boundary
called the Boundary of Memories. Jonas concludes
that if one of them closes the boundaries, then
all the memories of the world will be set free.
The Giver then leads him to the basement and
shows him a piano. He introduces him to music
and the meaning of emotions. He then reveals
to Jonas that the morning injections they take
remove their ability to feel emotions. He grabs
Jonas’s hand and transports him into a new memory,
this time a medieval wedding full of food, music,
and dancing. When he wakes up, Jonas feels a range
of emotions he’s never felt before. When he goes
home after training, he teaches Lily how to dance.
His parents see them dancing and look disturbed.
A hologram message from the Chief Elder interrupts
their conversation. The rest of the family go out
and start their day while Mother remains to talk
to the Chief Elder. The Chief Elder expresses
her concern if Jonas is being trained properly,
but he reassures her that she is. He lies to her
and tells her that they sit together and talk.
As he goes out, he grabs an apple and uses it
on the morning injection instead of his arm.
When Jonas leaves, the Chief Elder warns his
Mother to be more concerned about his son.
Over the next few days, the Giver teaches
Jonas about everything from the ancient world.
He shares with him various memories from
different people, cultures, and religions.
He also tells him about the
animals that they used to have.
He shows him every global milestone and every
important historical event from their past.
Jonas feels entranced at what he’s learning.
Every day that he learns something,
the more he wants to learn. He loves the old
world because it feels more complete somehow.
At one point, the Giver feels Jonas is ready to
know pain. He holds his hand during a session and
gives him a memory of some poachers killing an
elephant. When Jonas wakes up, he finds himself
crying. The Giver comforts him, reminding him
that there are far more painful things to come.
Later that night, Jonas can’t sleep and
instead comforts Gabriel in his cradle.
He tells him about the animals and is
able to show him by holding his wrist.
At this moment, Jonas realizes that Gabriel
might become the new Receiver of Memory.
He watches Fiona from her window and dreams
of her when he sleeps. In his dream, the two
of them lock lips together. Jonas tells the Giver
about his dream and learns that it’s a combination
of fantasy and reality. He explains to Jonas that
what he feels for Fiona is the beginning of love,
but the elders removed love as well as the other
emotions. Jonas thinks about this as he rides his
bike with Fiona the next day. She asks about
his training but he feels hesitant to share.
He also feels confused about his feelings for
her. Later at home, he asks his family about
the concept of love, but their explanations don’t
help at all. He tucks in Gabriel for the night and
tells him that he loves him. He then shares a few
happy memories with him before he goes to sleep.
The next day when Jonas arrives for training, he
finds the Giver on the floor. He rushes to help
him but before the Giver could stop him, they hold
hands and the memories begin flooding into Jonas.
He’s in the middle of a battlefield amidst a
bloody battle. His friend lays next to him,
bleeding from the chest. He fires his gun at the
presumed enemy and kills her. When Jonas wakes up,
he’s horrified. He’s never felt this emotion
before. This is what they call pain, loss,
and hurt. He runs away from the Giver who’s
telling him that he wasn’t meant to see that
for a few more years. But it’s too late. Jonas
wants nothing to do with these memories anymore.
The situation takes the Giver back to
Rosemary. She was the Receiver before Jonas.
The Giver sees Rosemary in his own memories,
crying as she walks away. Meanwhile, Jonas sees
Asher on the community grounds. Asher finds him
acting peculiar and watches his friend walk away.
Jonas is in a haze as he looks at the
children playing, unaware of the pain
and loss he’s feeling. Fiona approaches him
and he finally caves in. He tells her that
he’s stopped taking his injections and wants to
quit being a Receiver. He encourages her to stop
her injections too and soon she’ll know what he’s
talking about. Fiona thinks he’s nuts and insists
that he doesn’t quit his role. He then tells her
to meet up with him tomorrow at the fountain.
Jonas returns to the house at the Edge and finds
the Giver in the basement watching a memory.
The Giver finally tells Jonas about Rosemary,
his daughter, and the Receiver before him.
She was in training for just two months when she
insisted that she was ready to take on the pain.
He then showed her a memory of a mother losing
her child. Unfortunately, the memory was too
painful for her, and the next day, she went to the
elders and asked to be released into Elsewhere.
Jonas thinks that it couldn’t be too bad
if Rosemary was only living in Elsewhere,
but the Giver gives him a dark look and shows him
a hologram video of the people who were released
that morning. Jonas looks at the video and sees
his Father handling a baby from a set of twins.
He takes the baby to a separate room and proceeds
to inject it on the head. There can only be one
of the same things and so twins are separated
and the other one is released to Elsewhere.
Jonas looks in horror as he watches the baby stop
moving. The baby dies and his Father isn’t even
aware of what he’s doing. He doesn’t know that
what he’s giving the child is a lethal injection.
The Giver tells Jonas that the humans don’t grasp
the concept of death because they’ve never been
introduced to it. It turns out, all the young and
old people they were “releasing to Elsewhere” were
being killed by lethal injection. Jonas is furious
at the Giver and demands to know why they’ve never
done anything to stop this before. He tells Jonas
that there’s no point if these people can’t feel.
After training, he runs to the fountain and finds
Fiona in pieces. She didn’t take her morning
injections and is now feeling overwhelmed.
He holds her hands and asks her about her
emotions. He then leans in and kisses her. They
both feel a warm fuzzy feeling inside them. Jonas
tells her that there is more to what they’re
living in, but Fiona leaves. When he gets home,
he doesn’t join his family at dinner, deeply
concerning his Mother. He asks where Gabriel is
and it turns out that Gabriel has failed his test
for maturity and will be released into Elsewhere.
Despite his parents thinking this was a good
thing, Jonas knows better. This is a death
sentence. He packs his bag and escapes through
his window only to be approached by Asher.
Asher questions his peculiar behavior and stops
him from escaping. He tries to barricade Jonas but
he punches him out of the way. He then gets back
on his bike and rides all the way to the Edge.
When Jonas arrives, he seeks help from the
Giver, who happily assists him. They form a plan
together. Jonas will take Gabriel and travel to
the boundary of memories so that all the memories
of humanity will be free and the Giver will stay
here and help guide the people whose memories have
just been restored. He asks the Giver why he never
did anything all these years if he had the map,
but it turns out the Giver was just waiting
for someone like Jonas to come along.
Meanwhile, Jonas’s Mother reports to the Chief
Elder after Asher reported Jonas’s escape to her.
They bring up Jonas’s activity from the past year
and begin tracking him down. Back at the Edge,
a hologram transmission announces that
Jonas is missing and is being tracked down.
The Giver hands him the map and gives him one
last memory to give him courage. Jonas rides
his bike to the Nurturing Center and approaches
Fiona. He manages to convince her to take him to
the restricted floor where Gabriel is being held
together with the other Uncertains. Meanwhile,
soldiers are already gathering outside the center.
Jonas tells her that he’s leaving the community
tonight and taking Gabriel with him. He asks Fiona
to join him but she refuses, saying that she just
can’t leave her family behind. He promises to
come back for her and they share one last kiss.
Jonas takes Gabriel as Fiona takes another cradle
and lures the security away while he escapes.
Jonas runs outside and steals one of the security
motorcycles as Fiona is finally caught. He rides
all the way to the Edge as more security chases
him. As he’s nearing the end of their property, he
takes a deep breath and takes the plunge towards
the unknown. He disappears into the mist and
lands into unknown terrain below. Since the elders
can’t track him now, they take in Asher and Fiona
for interrogation. Meanwhile, Jonas has reached
the desert and is traveling at top speed towards
the border. Back at the headquarters, the elders
learn about Jonas’s plans and arrest the Giver.
The Giver wakes up in prison together with Fiona
while the elders hold a Ceremony of Loss for Jonas
to try and make up for his disappearance.
The Chief Elder reveals to Asher that Jonas
is likely still alive and assigns him a secret
mission to track him down and get rid of him.
Asher accepts the assignment but feels conflicting
feelings since Jonas is his best friend.
Beyond the mist, Jonas has now abandoned
his motorcycle and has started walking.
Just then, Asher’s drone appears and he begs
his friend to trust him and let them go.
Jonas starts running but the drone’s magnet
pulls them up and away. Asher then flies the
drone to a river and drops them. He doesn’t
have the heart to kill his friend and instead
releases them into the water so that they could
escape. He waits until he sees Jonas resurfaces
from the water before flying away. The Chief Elder
contacts Asher and for the first time in his life,
Asher lies and tells him that Jonas is dead.
Meanwhile, Jonas and Gabriel get out of the water
and continue their journey towards the border.
Despite wanting to give up hundreds of times,
the memory of Fiona keeps Jonas going. He had to
make it so that he could go back and rescue her.
Meanwhile, Jonas’s Mother takes Fiona out of her
cell and has made the arrangements for her release
to Elsewhere. Fiona tells Mother that she now
understands what Jonas has been talking about.
She’s felt things she’s never felt before and
she knows there’s so much more to the empty lives
they’ve been living. Back at the beyond, Jonas
and Gabriel have reached the snowy mountains.
They fight against the bitter cold as
they find their way towards the borders.
Jonas checks his map. The tower marking the
border should be around here somewhere. As
they continue their journey, Fiona is accompanied
to the chamber room where she will be released.
The Giver arrives at the other side of the room
and joins the elders. He begs the elders to put
a stop to this charade and to finally release the
people from this prison. The Chief Elder retorts
back saying that they’re delusional if they think
bringing back love can help them. Love can easily
turn to passion and then passion into contempt and
then murder. People are weak and selfish. Out of
all the people, the Giver should know best that
when people are given the power of choice, they
always choose wrong. Meanwhile, Jonas wakes up in
the midst of the snow, having collapsed from the
cold, and cradles Gabriel in his arms. He sees the
sled, just like in the memory, and climbs on it.
They slide down the snowy hill and finally reach
the tower indicating the border. They pass through
the force field and millions of memories are
released just as they’re about to place the
injection on Fiona. Jonas and Gabriel arrive at
the house, feeling ecstatic to know that it’s
real. And in his heart, Jonas knows that Fiona
is safe and they will see each other very soon.